## Expanding the R community in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
This presentation for an incubator in useR2021 Conference. The submitted abstract was:

> Data Science (DS) has become an in-demand, highly paid career in MENA, especially in UAE, KSA and Oil-rich Gulf countries but despite this interest in DS in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), there is very few R meet-up/R user group dedicated to learning, teaching, and sharing information about the R Programming language in MENA. Therefore, four chapters for R-Ladies and two R User groups were established in Saudi Arabia, Tunis, Algeria, Muscat and Egypt last year (2020) to bring out more R users and empower data scientists from underrepresented communities in MENA. However, the growth of the R community in MENA is limited by the language barrier, which makes the communities that exist around R (e.g. rOpenScie, MiR, ...) not well-known in MENA. This incubator aims to establish a working group dedicated to expanding the R community in MENA, and it will engage researchers and data scientists in MENA through in-person collaboration on open source projects. It'll also publish a guide in Arabic to be delivered directly to various Universities and research centres in MENA.
By the end of the incubator, we'll have established a working group and identified the barriers and how to overcome them to expand the R community in MENA. This working group aims to facilitate collaboration and integration between data scientists in MENA and communities around R Worldwide.

